JOINS

In MySQL, a JOIN is a clause used to combine rows from two or more tables based on a related column between them.
Joins allow you to retrieve data that is spread across multiple tables in a single query,
which is essential for working with normalized databases.

Core Types of Joins
INNER JOIN: Returns only the records with matching values in both tables.
LEFT/RIGHT JOIN: Returns all records from one table and matching records from the other, filling in NULL where matches don't exist.
CROSS JOIN: Produces a Cartesian product, pairing every row of one table with every row of the other.
SELF JOIN: Joins a table to itself, often used for hierarchical data1. 

1. INNER JOIN
SELECT * column_name(s)
FROM table1 (table on the left) INNER JOIN table2 (table on the right)
ON (table on the left)table1.column_name // name of foreign key coloumn = (table on the right) table2.column_name // name of the primary key coloumn;

2. LEFT JOIN
Basic Syntax
The standard syntax for a LEFT JOIN between two tables is as follows:

SELECT table1.column_name, table2.column_name
FROM table1 LEFT JOIN table2 
ON table1.common_column = table2.common_column;

table1: The "left" table (all rows will be included).
table2: The "right" table (only matching rows will be included).
ON: The condition that defines how the tables are related

3. RIGHT JOIN
Basic Syntax
The standard syntax for a RIGHT JOIN between two tables is as follows:

SELECT table1.column_name, table2.column_name
FROM table1 RIGHT JOIN table2 
ON table1.common_column = table2.common_column;

table1: The "right" table (all rows will be included).
table2: The "left" table (only matching rows will be included).
ON: The condition that defines how the tables are related

4. CROSS JOIN
In MySQL, a CROSS JOIN produces a Cartesian product of two tables,
where every row from the first table is combined with every row from the second table.

Standard Syntax
The most common way to write a cross join uses the explicit CROSS JOIN keyword: 
SELECT column_list FROM table1 CROSS JOIN table2;
Alternative (Comma Syntax): You can also achieve a cross join by listing tables separated by a comma:
SELECT * FROM table1, table2;

Result Size: If table1 has N rows and table2 has M rows, the result set will contain N × M rows.

5. SELF JOIN
In MySQL, a self join is a regular join where a table is joined with itself. Because the query references the same table twice